A django add-on that allows models to be decorated with information about which fields contain sensitive information, and an associated management command that creates a script to remove that information.

INSTALL
=======

::

    $ pip install django-scrub-pii

USAGE
=====

Add scrubpii to your settings file:

.. code :: python

    INSTALLED_APPS = (
        ...,
        ...,
        ...,
        'scrubpii',
    )

Sensitive fields are marked by adding a `sensitive_fields` list to the model's Meta class. As the fields in the Meta class are fixed, Django needs to be patched to allow the new field. To ensure isolation and warn if compatibility problems happen in future, this is achieved by defining the model within a context manager:

.. code :: python

    from scrubpii import allow_sensitive_fields
    
    with allow_sensitive_fields():
        class Person(models.Model):
            first_name = models.CharField(max_length=30)
            last_name = models.CharField(max_length=30)
            date_of_birth = models.DateField()
            email = models.EmailField()

            def __unicode__(self):
                return "{0} {1}".format(self.first_name, self.last_name)

            class Meta:
                sensitive_fields = {'last_name', 'first_name', 'email', 'date_of_birth'}

This can be achieved easily by separating the sensitive models out into a new file, as so:

.. code :: python

    from django.db import models
    from scrubpii import allow_sensitive_fields
    
    with allow_sensitive_fields():
        from .sensitive_models import *

where `sensitive_models.py` is:

.. code :: python

    from django.db import models
    
    __all__ = ['Person']
    
    class Person(models.Model):
        first_name = models.CharField(max_length=30)
        last_name = models.CharField(max_length=30)
        date_of_birth = models.DateField()
        email = models.EmailField()

        def __unicode__(self):
            return "{0} {1}".format(self.first_name, self.last_name)

        class Meta:
            sensitive_fields = {'last_name', 'first_name', 'email', 'date_of_birth'}


Once the sensitive fields are defined a management command will generate SQL statements to anonymize a database. This app will not anonymize the database directly to avoid the risk of damaging live data.

The script can be generated by running the management command:

..

    $ python manage.py get_sensitive_data_removal_script > scrub.sql

The suggested workflow is:

1. Dump database
2. Reload dump into a temporary database on a secure server (or copy sqlite.db if sqlite)
3. Generate anonymisation script
4. Run anonymisation script against temporary database
5. Dump temporary database
6. Delete temporary database
7. Transmit temporary database to insecure server

SUPPORTED DATABASES
===================

Currently, postgresql and sqlite only are supported. Patches to add other databases or fields welcome.

Note, the anonymisation under sqlite is more comprehensive than under postgresql. For example, under sqlite IP addresses will be anonymised to the same value, whereas under postgres different IPs will be anonymised to differing values.

DEVELOP
=======

..

    $ git clone django-scrub-pii
    $ cd django-scrub-pii
    $ make

RUNNING TESTS
=============

::

    $ tox

